# sign-language-recognition
Communication through signing acknowledgment framework gives us an inventive, normal, easy-to-understand method of correspondence with the PC which is more recognizable to individuals. Huge obstructions that significantly influence life quality come from the correspondence detach between the hard of hearing and the speaking.  Our project targets making the fundamental stride in spanning the correspondence whole between typical individuals and hard of hearing and unable to speak individuals utilizing hand signal. However, this project is an extension to ASL. 
WORKING METHODOLOGY
1). Capturing hand gestures for each identical text,In this module, the user going to capture an image of a hand gesture. For that, we going to use the OpenCV library. Capture the image and store it in a particular directory.
2). Converting an image into greyscale, Directly processing color images causes more time consumption and complex operation to  the neural networks. Color image into greyscale (black and white) which only has binary colors and is easy to process the image in CNN.
3). Passing through CNN and Classification of data, By using the Keras library in python, CNN is going to achieve. Greyscale image is passed through the CNN architecture in this module. And also classifying data in this module, building model in this module. At final, training and testing same data and also testing different data with different constraints.
4). Final module is detecting hand gestures, In this module, users can perform the detection of text based on hand gestures.
